### `mods.json`

Describes mod ids. Defines which items they can appear on and what stats with what
values they have.

The file is an object where each key is a mod id that has its description object
as value. That description object has the following fields:

**General information**

- `name`: The display name of the mod in case of "normally" spawnable mods (Prefixes
  and Suffixes).
  Can be an empty string or some other string in case it is never seen (can't appear
  on magic items).
- `required_level`: The level requirement of the mod.
  
**Granted stats, buffs and effects**
  
- `stats`: Array of the stats this mod gives. `id` is the stat id and `min` and `max`
  (both inclusive) define the range the stat can roll. These can be converted to
  text with the help of `stat_translations.json` (see above).
- `grants_buff`: The stats of this mod may be applied to allies or enemies around the mod
  carrier. If they are, this field contains the buff id (resolved in `Buffs.dat`)
  and the range the buff is applied. If the range is 0 and the buff is applied to
  allies, it only affects the carrier. The buff referenced by the id specifies
  the stats of this mod that are applied to others and some information for
  display purposes.
- `grants_effect`: Active gem and support gem like effects this mod gives.
  The two fields (`granted_effect_id` and `level`) identify a single row in
  `GrantedEffectsPerLevel.dat`.

**Spawning/generating**

- `adds_tags`: Tags that are added to an item if it has this mod. These are taken into
  consideration when spawning other mods, see `spawns_on`.
- `domain`: The domain this mod appears on. See 
  [`PyPoE.poe.constants.MOD_DOMAIN`](http://omegak2.net/poe/PyPoE/_autosummary/PyPoE.poe.constants.html#PyPoE.poe.constants.MOD_DOMAIN)
  for the possible values and explanation.
- `generation_type`: How this mod is generated. See
  [`PyPoE.poe.constants.MOD_MOD_GENERATION_TYPE`](http://omegak2.net/poe/PyPoE/_autosummary/PyPoE.poe.constants.html#PyPoE.poe.constants.MOD_GENERATION_TYPE)
  for the possible values and explanation.
- `group`: Some kind of mod grouping, see the file for examples. For normally spawnable
  mods, only one mod of a group can appear on an item at the same time.
- `is_essence_only`: True iff the mod can only be generated by essences.
- `spawn_tags`: Defines on which items of the domain this mod can be spawned/crafted
  on. Only contains elements for mods that appear "normally", e.g. not for
  master crafted mods or essences. The array elements are evaluated in order,
  the first element that has a tag as a key that the item in question has is taken.
  If the object with that tag as key has `true` as value, the mod can spawn on the
  item. If it has `false` as value, the mod can not spawn. *This might actually
  not be true but seems to be correct for the mods I checked.* The mod
  `AddedChaosDamageCorrupted1`, for example, has `"no_attack_mods": false`,
  `"ring": true` and `"default": false`. It can therefore spawn on items that do
  not have Catarina's "Cannot roll Attack Mods" mod and are rings, but not on
  any other item. The tags that appear on the mods in the file are listed at the bottom.
  All can be found in the `Tags.dat` file in the GGPK.

Mods of the domains 'monster', 'chest', 'area', 'stance' and 'atlas' are
not included. These are not necessary for my use cases atm and would nearly double
the file size.

#### Tags

Below are the tags that appear in the `spawns_on` fields. These are grouped into
the domains they can appear on.

##### All domains

`default` matches all items of the given domain.

##### `item`

**Base item types:**

Obvious:
`ring`, `amulet`, `belt`, `sword`, `mace`, `sceptre`, `staff`, `axe`, `gloves`,
`quiver`, `bow`, `claw`, `dagger`, `helmet`, `wand`, `fishing_rod`, `boots`,
`shield`, `body_armour`, `rapier`

Unknown: `focus`

**Groups:**

`armour`: matches items with one of `gloves`, `helmet`, `boots`, `shield`, 
`body_armour`.

`armour` of specific types: `str_armour`, `str_dex_armour`, `str_int_armour`,
`str_dex_int_armour`, `dex_armour`, `dex_int_armour`, `int_armour`

`weapon`: matches items with one of `sword`, `mace`, `sceptre`, `staff`, `axe`,
`bow`, `claw`, `dagger`, `wand`, `rapier`.

All items with `weapon` have `one_hand_weapon` or `two_hand_weapon` assigned:

- Items with either exist: `sword`, `mace`, `axe`
- Only `one_hand_weapon`: `sceptre`, `claw`, `dagger`, `wand`, `rapier`
- Only `two_hand_weapon`: `bow`, `staff`

`ranged`: matches item with `bow` or `wand`.

**Added by mods:**

If an item has Catarina's "Cannot roll Attack Mods", it has the tag `no_attack_mods`.
If it has Vagan's "Cannot roll Caster Mod", it has the tag `no_caster_mods`.

##### `flask`

Obvious groups: `utility_flask`, `life_flask`, `hybrid_flask`, `mana_flask`

Only Diamond flasks have the tag `critical_utility_flask`. They still have
`utility_flask`.

##### `jewel`

All jewels have the tag `jewel`. Viridian jewels have `not_int` and `not_str`,
Cobalt jewels `not_dex` and `not_str`, Crimson jewels `not_dex` and `not_int`
and Prismatic jewels all three of these.

Jewel mods add tags to an item. These are `specific_weapon`, `one_handed_mod`,
`melee_mod`, `dual_wielding_mod`, `shield_mod`, `two_handed_mod` and all weapon
base item type tags from the `wearable_item` section above.
